GCP load balancing and BigQuery app updates - metrics collection and dashboards (#5158)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/google/cloud-load-balancing.md

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/clb.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

Google Cloud Load Balancing is Google’s load balancing service for Google Cloud Platform. The Sumo Logic App for Google Cloud Load Balancing helps you monitor your **Application load balancer** activity. There are 3 types of Application load balancer available in GCP:
- Global External
- Regional External
- Internal

> Each type of Application load balancer has its own set of log structure and metrics. Thus the app is divided into 3 folders,each folder having respective dashboards for each type.
> The preconfigured dashboards provide insight into request locations and volume, response codes, and request and response data by load balancer with help for logs and metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each type of Application load balancer has its own set of log structure and metrics. To accommodate this, the app is organized into three folders, each containing dashboards specific to the respective load balancer type.
The preconfigured dashboards provide insights into request locations and volume, response codes, and request and response data by load balancer with help for logs and metrics.
```

## Log types

> The Sumo Logic app for Google Cloud Load Balancer uses the following logs : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic app for Google Cloud Load Balancer uses the following logs:
```

- [Global External logging](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/https/https-logging-monitoring)
- [Regional External logging](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/https/https-reg-logging-monitoring)
- [Internal logging](https://cloud.google.com/load-balancing/docs/l7-internal/monitoring#logs_sampling_and_collection)

## Metric types

> The Sumo Logic app for Google Cloud Load Balancer uses these [metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-loadbalancing).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic app for Google Cloud Load Balancer uses the following three [metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-loadbalancing):
```

> - Global External - Metric for this type are of the format "https/metric_name"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Global External**. Metrics for this type are of the format "https/metric_name".
```

> - Regional External - Metric for this type are of the format "https/external/regional/metric_name"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Regional External**. Metrics for this type are of the format "https/external/regional/metric_name".
```

> - Internal - Metric for this type are of the format “https/internal/metric_name”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Internal**. Metric for this type are of the format “https/internal/metric_name”.
```

1. Go to **Logging** and click **Logs Router**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/GCP_logging_1.png')} alt="Google integrations" />
2. Click **Create Sink**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/sink.png')} alt="Google integrations" />
3. As part of **Create logs routing sink**, add the following information.
  1. Enter a Sink Name. For example, "gcp-load-balance".
  2. Select "Cloud Pub/Sub" as the **Sink Service**.
  3. Set **Sink Destination** to the Pub/Sub topic you created in the Google Cloud Platform Source procedure. For example, "pub-sub-logs".

>   4. In **Choose logs to include in sink** section for `resource_type`, use query `resource.type="http_load_balancer" OR resource.type="http_external_regional_lb_rule" OR resource.type="internal_http_lb_rule"`. The three resource type are for different type of load balancer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. In the **Choose logs to include in sink** section for `resource_type`, use query `resource.type="http_load_balancer" OR resource.type="http_external_regional_lb_rule" OR resource.type="internal_http_lb_rule"`. Following are the three resource types for the different types of load balancers:
```

    - `"http_load_balancer"` - For global external application load balancer.
    - `"http_external_regional_lb_rule"` - For regional external application load balancer.
    - `"internal_http_lb_rule"` - For internal application load balancer.

>     You can include resource type which are associated with the load balancer which need to get monitored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can include resource types associated with the load balancer that need to be monitored.
```

  5. Click **Create Sync**.

:::note
By default, GCP logs are stored within Cloud Logging, but you can configure Log Router to exclude them as detailed [here](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/exclusions#overview) without affecting the export to Sumo Logic as outlined above.
:::

## Collecting metrics for the Google Cloud Load Balancer app

> For metrics collection in Sumo Logic, use the [GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For metrics collection in Sumo Logic, use the [GCP Metric source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).
```

  1. Enter a Sink Name. For example, "gce-vm-instance".
  2. Select "Cloud Pub/Sub" as the **Sink Service**.
  3. Set **Sink Destination** to the Pub/Sub topic you created in the Google Cloud Platform Source procedure. For example, "pub-sub-logs".

>   4. In **Choose logs to include in sink** section for `resource_type`, replace `"<resource_variable>"` with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. In **Choose logs to include in sink** section for `resource_type`, replace `"<resource_variable>"` with:
```

    - `"http_load_balancer"` - For global external application load balancer.
    - `"http_external_regional_lb_rule"` - For regional external application load balancer.
    - `"internal_http_lb_rule"` - For internal application load balancer.
  5. Click **Create Sync**.

:::note
By default, GCP logs are stored within Cloud Logging, but you can configure Log Router to exclude them as detailed [here](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/exclusions#overview) without affecting the export to Sumo Logic as outlined above.
:::

> ## Collecting Metric for the Google Cloud Load Balancer app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Collecting metrics for the Google Cloud Load Balancer app
```

> For metric collection in Sumo Logic use [GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For metrics collection in Sumo Logic, use the [GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).
```

> 1. Setup the [Google Service Account](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#google-service-account).
> 1. [Setup a GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#set-up-a-gcp-metrics-source) in Sumo Logic. While setting up the source select **Cloud Load Balancer** as the service from dropdown to get the Google cloud function metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up the [Google Service Account](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#google-service-account).
1. Set up a [GCP Metric source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#set-up-a-gcp-metrics-source) in Sumo Logic. While setting up the source, select **Cloud Load Balancer** as the service from dropdown to get the Google Cloud function metrics.
```

<ViewDashboards/>

> Under the installed app folder you will see different folders for different type of Application load balancer namely - 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under the installed app folder you will see different folders for different types of Application load balancers named as follows: 
```

> Under the installed app folder you will see different folders for different types of Application load balancers named as follows: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the installed app folder, you will see different folders for different types of Application load balancers named as follows: 
```

- Global External
- Internal
- Regional External

> Each folder has its own set of dashboard based on respective logs and metrics.
> Following are the set of dashboards which you will get for each load balancer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each folder has its own set of dashboards based on respective logs and metrics.
Following are the set of dashboards that you will get for each load balancer:
```

Reviewer: @sumoanema can you pls apply this update?

:::note

> For log based dashboards the dashboard filter are based metric values. In metrics load balancer name for regional external and internal load balancer is prefixed with "URL_MAP". Panel queries are adjusted for this and filter works accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For log-based dashboards, filters are based metric values. In metrics load balancers, the names for regional external and internal load balancer are prefixed with "URL_MAP". Panel queries are adjusted accordingly, ensuring filters functions as expected.
```

:::

### Overview

See an overview of Google Cloud Load Balancing activity, including request locations, browsers and operating systems used, error status codes, requests by load balancer, bytes sent and received, and message severity over time.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google-cloud-load-balancing-overview.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

### Request Analysis
See information about request activity in Google Cloud Load Balancing, including request locations, requests by type over time, requests by load balancer over time, KBs sent and received by number of requests, and total requests by load balancer.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google-cloud-load-balancing-request-analysis.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

### Status Analysis
See information about the status of requests in Google Cloud Load Balancing, including status codes per project, over time, and by load balancer; location of 4xx and 5xx responses; and 4xx and 5xx responses by load balancer.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google-cloud-load-balancing-status-analysis.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

### Bytes count

> This dashboard help you monitor Byte Count between client- load balancer and load balancer - backend. You can monitor total bytes, average bytes and trend for request and response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This dashboard helps you monitor the Byte Count between the client-load balancer and load balancer-backend. You can monitor total bytes, average bytes, and trends for request and response.
```

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google-cloud-load-balancing-bytes-count.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

Reviewer 2: The dashboard img is broken. Please replace the img.

### Latency

> This dashboard helps you monitor average latency between client- load balancer and load balancer - backend. You can also monitor latency by response code, latency trends and latency by load balancer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This dashboard helps you monitor the average latency between the client-load balancer and load balancer-backend. You can also monitor latency by response code, latency trends, and latency by load balancer.
```

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google-cloud-load-balancing-latency.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

Reviewer 2: The dashboard img is broken. Please replace the img.

### Requests

> This dashboard helps you monitor total request count between client- load balancer and load balancer - backend. You can also monitor request count by response code, response code by backends, and trends for different response code classes - 2x, 3xx, 4xx and 5xx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This dashboard helps you monitor the total request count between the client-load balancer and load balancer-backend. You can also monitor request count by response code, response code by backends, and trends for different response code classes - 2x, 3xx, 4xx, and 5xx.
```

> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google-cloud-load-balancing-requests.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

Reviewer 2: The dashboard img is broken. Please replace the img.

See information about the status of requests in Google Cloud Load Balancing, including status codes per project, over time, and by load balancer; location of 4xx and 5xx responses; and 4xx and 5xx responses by load balancer.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-Cloud-Application-Load-Balancer-Global-External-Status-Analysis.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

### Global External - Bytes count
This dashboard help you monitor Byte Count between client- load balancer and load balancer - backend. You can monitor total bytes, average bytes and trend for request and response.
<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-Cloud-Application-Load-Balancer-Global-External-Bytes-Count.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

### Global External - Latency
This dashboard helps you monitor average latency between client- load balancer and load balancer - backend. You can also monitor latency by response code, latency trends and latency by load balancer.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/Google-Cloud-Application-Load-Balancer-Global-External-Latency.png')} alt="Google Load Balancing dashboards" />

### Global External - Requests

> This dashboard helps you monitor total request count between client- load balancer and load balancer - backend. You can also monitor request count by response code, response code by backends, and trends for different response code classes - 2x, 3xx, 4xx and 5xx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This dashboard helps you monitor total request count between client - load balancer and load balancer - backend. You can also monitor request count by response code, response code by backends, and trends for different response code classes - 2x, 3xx, 4xx and 5xx.
```

import AppUninstall from '../../reuse/apps/app-uninstall.md';

<AppUninstall/>

## Create monitors for GCP load balancer app

import CreateMonitors from '../../reuse/apps/create-monitors.md';

<CreateMonitors/>

### GCP load balancer alerts

> | Alert Name  | Alert Description and conditions | Alert Condition | Recover Condition |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Alert Name  | Alert Description and Conditions | Alert Condition | Recover Condition |
```
